[Note: I tried  to fix this  article as I went but it's such a mess that I gave
up and instead present it as-is, check the JPEG if you don't believe me.]

Local manufacturing technology for new phone

New  manufacturing technology developed  in  Australia  will  be used  to build
Australia's latest standard telephone, the Touchfone 200.

A  joint  development between Telecom, AWA  and Alcatel-STC, the new phone will
have many new features including  soft touch keypad, 10 stored  memory numbers,
last  number redial  and  PABX compatibility. Both AWA and Alcatel-STC will  be
making the phone.

Drawing on its own R  & D facilities, AWA  designed and  constructed  computer-
controlled assembly and testing equipment.

The AWA assembly line will  produce  over  3,000 phones  per day for  the local
market with additional capacity for export orders.

The Touchfone 200 is a major  advance in telephone design and has  considerable
export  potential, according to AWA Executive General Manager,  Communications,
Warwick Bishop.

"The Touch fone 200, as a standard phone, is superior in design and features to
every other standard phone sold in the world today."

"We  used  our  own  skills  and technology to design and manufacture both  new
components for the phone and highly automated assembly methods."

"The very  important speech processing circuit, for instance,  was designed  at
AWA's micro circuit design centre and

lians, AWA designed and installed  a  series of quality  control  testbeds that
will  be produced  at  the  company's new  $60 million micro  circuit  plant at
Homebush, NSW," Mr Bishop said.

The  Telecom  developed  soft-touch  keypad  is  also   regarded  as  a  unique
development.

Quality being critical for an item that will eventually be used by most Austra-

monitor manufacturing and assembly performance at each step.

Alcatel-STC is  also  installing a $300,000  robotic system  at its  Alexandria
factory to  automate its  assembly of  the printed circuit board that is at the
heart of the telephone.

Developed  by  company  engineers  in  conjunction  with  the   Automation  and
Engineering  Applications Centre  in  Wollongong,  OSCAR  (Odd-Shaped Component
Assembly Robot)  will  insert a series of five non-uniform  components onto the
printed circuit  board. The  remaining non-uniform components  will  be handled
manually. All other components will be automatically inserted.

OSCAR is an AdeptOne  four-axis manipulator robot form Adept  Technology in San
Jose, California. It is  powered by an Adept  MC Controller that allows several
tasks to be performed at once with no degradation of performance.  It  can, for
example, control a  conveyor  or  communicate with an external computer  at the
same time the robot is fulfilling its primary function.

The AdeptOne is the  first commercial robot to employ direct drive  technology.
This  generates high  torque at relatively low  motor  speeds with  no  loss of
mechanical  advantage, making  cycle speed  several  times  faster than that of
conventional robots.


Photos:

   The main components inside the new Touchfone 200, which has been designed
   for minimum assembly time. The  soft touch keyboard  connects directly to
   the main PC board. (Courtesy AWA)

   Alcatel-STC  is  using a  new  robotic system  called  OSCAR  (Odd-Shaped
   Component Assembly Robot) to assemble the Touchfone 200.
